we begin in southern Gaza where the
Israeli military has carried out
overnight attacks on the city of
[Applause]
Rafa at least 63 Palestinians have been
killed multiple strikes targeted the
vicinity of the Kuwait hospital and
crowds of injured Palestinians including
children have streamed into the
overburdened
facility and Israel's defense minister
says two captives were rescued during
the operation they've been identified as
60-year-old Fernando mman and
70-year-old Luis hard both have been
flowing a hospital in Israel and the
military says they're in good
health I'm very happy to announce that
this night two released hostages landed
here at sheiba Medical Center Israel's
largest hospital they were received inar
ER and initial examination were
conducted by our ER staff and they are
in a stable condition and we intend to
continue and follow them up for the
coming uh days until we'll be for sure
clear of their medical
situation A corespondent hany Mahmud is
joining us on the phone from Rafa now
and hany over the past few hours our
colleague tadic has been reporting on a
significant increase in Israeli strikes
on Rafa and also fighting around Rafa
what can you tell us about what's
happening there
now yes uh overnight the attack seem to
be only intensifying and uh with an
increased uh intensity in the artillery
shelling and it it seems like the is
really military uh was using all of its
uh military Arsenal with the exception
of course of a nuclear power just to
point that out but there were there were
quad copters attack drones there were
helicopters uh were fighter jets
artillery Shilling tanks the all at once
it started from Midnight as as the time
as of now as a speak there's still sound
of
explosions uh from the eastern part of
the uh city of Rafa as the northern part
that's the Border area between Han
un and and RAF City and the initial
report that we're getting right now is
overnight attacks
targeted uh residential homes of the
eastern part of the city there were
Target of public facilities and
infrastructure that uh including roads
and made main routes and connecting
commun with uh with the ra City all of
this have been um mounting the pressure
on people uh I can safely say that it
was a Sleepless restless night for the
vast majority uh of the the people in ra
City here uh and still continuing to
happen right now uh there is a dense
presence of aack drone just making it
very difficult for any possible a
movement in or out presidential home
there is a a state of panic and fear and
for a lot of people this is the
beginning for them this is probably the
beginning of the offensive uh in in ra
City the offensive of course that the
Israeli military has been warning about
for well over a week now they have been
saying that they are going to advance
their ground operation into Rafa and
Hanny when you speak about you know the
vast majority of people in in Rafa and
how they're feeling it's really
important to remind our viewers at this
point that the vast majority of gaza's
population is now in Rafa is in its
Southernmost city on the border with
Egypt yes that is accurate more than
half of the Gaza Street population have
been squeezed into this small part uh of
the city I mean you can easily spot how
densely populated become has R City
become just a brief walk walking into uh
the streets of raahan and and seeing the
all the tents that have been set up on
the sidewalks or on the little island in
the middle of the road or evacuation
centers managed and run by uh hona and
all all all the empty pockets of lands
here at the initial weeks of the war
when uh we arrived here uh or when did
some of the reporting the city was still
relatively uh empty with the exception
of course of the local that just within
a span of two months the population went
from
250,000 all the way to
1 a little over 1.7 million people uh
here all crowded in in this small part
the city doesn't have enough State
doesn't have a proper infrastructure
doesn't have necessities and Facilities
to accommodate this large number of
people but so far what we're looking at
the pattern that's been created on the
on the ground is not only displacement
and the the fact that there are
difficult living conditions that they
have to experience on daily basis and
what seem to be their new normal uh now
is on top of this is the mounting the
trauma of of the and the threats of the
ground Invasion uh but they are left
with no options and in terms of safety
it's equivalent to non or very limited
because no talks about a a possibility
of providing a safety zone or safety
parador and even if if there are talks
about this there's still that terrible
experience they had in the past with
with safety zones designated by the isra
military and its people ended up being
killed in the very designated uh zones
that the military told them to go to and
right now there there is a huge
explosion going on at the northern part
of the city and I I can clearly hear it
hany thank you very much for that that
is our correspondent hany mahm joining
us on the phone from Rafa with the very
latest thank you
Hy and the Israeli Army has been
speaking about the military's actions in
Rafa let's go to our correspondent Rory
Chalin he's joining us live from
occupied East Jerusalem and Rory as we
were hearing from hany that increase in
Israeli military action is very much
continuing this is after Israel has got
those two captives out of Gaza they have
said that the way wave of Air Raids that
they launched were to get the captives
out yeah that's right and that's what's
being reported uh in the Israeli media
that the intense bombardment that uh
Rafa had overnight was directly linked
it was part of this rescue operation now
we've heard from uh in a statement we've
heard from the defense minister yav
galance who has called this uh an
impressive rescue operation he said I
followed the operation closely with the
Prime Minister and officials and we
express our appreciation to the Army and
shinb forces for the important operation
this was a joint operation Army shinb
that's the internal security agency
intelligence Security Agency and Israeli
police as well now what's being reported
in Israeli media we can't independently
verify this at the moment the pcture
that we're getting is that the operation
took about an hour uh and it happened
happened at say 1 in the morning uh
local time overnight that the uh
captives were being held in a heavily
guarded uh apartment building on the
second floor of that building uh and
that the operation had been planned for
quite some time and it had been delayed
numerous times before it was finally
undertaken what are the takeaways from
this well this is obviously a rare bit
of good news for the Netanyahu
government it highlights the difficulty
of uh rescue operations to get those
captives out this is only the second
time that an operation of this sort has
been carried out successfully uh so
Netanyahu is likely to use this as uh
further indication further proof that uh
a proper ground operation in Rafa is
necessary because these captures were
found in in the Rafa area it it also I
think uh shows the level of Destruction
and death that the Israeli Army is
willing to inflict on civilians in Gaza
we've had 60 plus Dead uh in Rafa to get
two hostages two captives out so that's
another illustration of of that kind of
mismatch that that balance of of death
and Destruction for for Israeli lives
and also I think it plays into this idea
of of well where were these hostages is
being kept the assumption is that most
of them are being kept underground in in
the tunnels but these two if we
understand it correctly were found above
ground in in an apartment building so
that might influence this kind of the
rumors that we're getting out of Israel
at the moment are that many more of the
captives are assumed to be dead than had
initially been or officially been stated
and that might these two might be linked
it might well be because some of the
captives are being held above ground
rather than underground which means of
course they're subjected to the same
level of intense bombardment that the
civilians of Gaza are being subjected to
Rory thank you very much for that Rory
challenge with the very latest live in
occupied East
Jerusalem